feat: blog: ESLint Community org announcement (#402)
eslint/eslint.org: src/content/blog/2023-01-10-eslint-community-org.md

---
layout: post

> title: Announcing ESLint's official Community organization

Reviewer: "ESLint Community" should be capitalized as the name of the organization, but probably not in this line which isn't using the name:

```suggestion
title: Announcing ESLint's official community organization
```

Reviewer 2: Agreed. Maybe better to use that form.
```suggestion
title: Announcing the ESLint Community GitHub organization
```

> teaser: We are happy to announce the official ESLint Community organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
teaser: The ESLint Community GitHub organization is a place for important ecosystem projects to get the attention and support they deserve.
```

tags:

>   - Community organization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - eslint-community
  - Community
```

  - Updates
authors:
  - MichaelDeBoey
categories:
  - Announcements
---

In our
["ESLint's 2022 year in review" blogpost](https://eslint.org/blog/2023/01/eslint-2022-year-review),
[Nicholas](https://github.com/nzakas) already briefly mentioned it in the
['Project kickoffs' section](https://eslint.org/blog/2023/01/eslint-2022-year-review#project-kickoffs),

> but I'm happy to now officially announce the all new official

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but I'm happy to now officially announce the all-new official
```

> In our
> ["ESLint's 2022 year in review" blogpost](https://eslint.org/blog/2023/01/eslint-2022-year-review),
> [Nicholas](https://github.com/nzakas) already briefly mentioned it in the
> ['Project kickoffs' section](https://eslint.org/blog/2023/01/eslint-2022-year-review#project-kickoffs),
> but I'm happy to now officially announce the all new official
> [ESLint Community GitHub organization](https://github.com/eslint-community).

Reviewer 2: This will be easier to read with fewer links.

```suggestion
In our [2022 year in review](https://eslint.org/blog/2023/01/eslint-2022-year-review),
we briefly mentioned a couple of project kickoffs, and I'm excited now excited to announce the official
[ESLint Community GitHub organization](https://github.com/eslint-community).
```

> The strength of ESLint is in its ecosystem, and we had been searching for a way
> to better organize that ecosystem. As a result, we created the
> `@eslint-community` GitHub organization as a home for high-value projects in the
> ESLint ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: A bit of cleanup.
```suggestion
The strength of ESLint is in its ecosystem, and we continue to investigate different ways of further supporting that community. We began by [donating to community projects](https://eslint.org/blog/2022/02/paying-contributors-sponsoring-projects/#supporting-the-community), to ensure that high-value projects were receiving the funds they needed to continue with ongoing maintenance and development. Our next step is to create the
`@eslint-community` GitHub organization as a home for high-value projects in the
ESLint ecosystem.
```

As you can read in the

> ['`@eslint-community` GitHub organization' RFC](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/tree/main/designs/2022-community-eslint-org),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
["`@eslint-community` GitHub organization" RFC](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/tree/main/designs/2022-community-eslint-org),
```

> the goal of this new org is to have a place where community members can help

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the goal of this new organization is to have a place where community members can help
```

> ensure widely depended upon ESLint related packages live and thrive & never fall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ensure widely-depended-upon, ESLint-related packages live and thrive & never fall
```

> ensure widely depended upon ESLint related packages live and thrive & never fall

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ensure widely depended upon ESLint related packages live and never fall
```

out of maintenance.  

> We will make sure these packages stay up to date with newer ESLint releases, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will make sure these packages stay up-to-date with newer ESLint releases, and
```

> We will make sure these packages stay up to date with newer ESLint releases, and

Reviewer 2: I think we need to define who "we" is here. Maybe introduce the community team before this sentence?

> they don't hold the wider community back without depending on one person's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they don't hold the wider community back by depending on a single person's
```

> GitHub/`npm` account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub or npm account.
```

You might have noticed that some of your most beloved ESLint-related packages

> have already been moved over or forked by to the all new org. A full list of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have already been moved over to or been forked to the new org. A full list of the
```

> have already been moved over or forked by to the all new org. A full list of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have already been moved over or forked by to the `eslint-community` organization. A full list of the
```

> ones that are already included are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
current projects include:
```

* [`eslint-formatter-codeframe`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-formatter-codeframe)
  &
  [`eslint-formatter-table`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-formatter-table)  

>   We took these over from `@fregante](https://github.com/fregante)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  We took these over from [@fregante](https://github.com/fregante)
```

* [`eslint-plugin-eslint-plugin`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-eslint-plugin)  
  [@not-an-aardvark](https://github.com/not-an-aardvark) transferred this repo
  to the new org, but is still maintaining it
* [`eslint-plugin-promise`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-promise)  
  We took this one over from [@xjamundx](https://github.com/xjamundx)
* [`eslint-plugin-security`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-security)  
  We took this one over from the
  [@nodesecurity](https://github.com/nodesecurity) team, but
  [@nzakas](https://github.com/nzakas) is still maintaining it
* [`eslint-utils`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-utils) &
  [`regexpp`](https://github.com/eslint-community/regexpp)  
  We created a fork from [@mysticatea](https://github.com/mysticatea)'s repos &
  published them under the
  [`@eslint-community` `npm` organization](https://npmjs.com/org/eslint-community).

> We intend to also create a (clean) fork, bring them up to date & publish them on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We intend to also create a (clean) fork, bring them up-to-date & publish them on
```

> We intend to also create a (clean) fork, bring them up to date & publish them on
> `npm` as well for the following repos from
> [@mysticatea](https://github.com/mysticatea):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also intend to fork, bring up to date, and publish the following packages originally authored by [@mysticatea](https://github.com/mysticatea):
```

* [`@mysticatea/eslint-plugin`](https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-plugin)
* [`eslint-plugin-es`](https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-plugin-es)  
  We'll work on getting all
  [`eslint-plugin-es-x`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-es-x)
  features merged as well
* [`eslint-plugin-eslint-comments`](https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-plugin-eslint-comments)
* [`eslint-plugin-node`](https://github.com/mysticatea/eslint-plugin-node)  
  We'll work on getting all
  [`eslint-plugin-n`](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-n)
  features merged as well

> Of course, we don't want to stop there.  

Reviewer 2: This is a good start, but we should have specific criteria that is published both in this blog post and somewhere in the org for people to refer to. It might make sense to create a repo that contains this info in a README and then use an issue template to allow people to apply to be included.

We need the details on what is expected after a package is transferred over, how to manage releases, who will be maintaining it, etc., to make this more appealing to others.

> Of course, we don't want to stop there.  
> If you think your project would be a good fit for the new community org, *or*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, we don't want to stop there.

If you think your project would be a good fit for the new community org, *or*
```

> you're depending on a project that's currently unmaintained & want to have the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
you're depending on a project that's currently unmaintained & wants to have the
```

community to take it over, you can contact the Community Core team (which

> currently consists of [`@aladdin-add`](https://github.com/aladdin-add),

Reviewer: As a side note, I would be interested to join this team, as I help maintain ESLint, generator-eslint, eslint-plugin-eslint-plugin, the new eslint-doc-generator, and a bunch of other ESLint plugins 😀.

[`@ota-meshi`](https://github.com/ota-meshi),
[`@voxpelli`](https://github.com/voxpelli) & myself
[`@MichaelDeBoey`](https://github.com/MichaelDeBoey)) on

> [the official ESLint Discord](https://eslint.org/chat).

Reviewer 2: Please include a conclusion at the end of post.
